README.md, before:

# dotfiles

Personal dotfiles for macOS.

## Current Setup

- **Shell**: Nushell
- **Prompt**: Starship (pure preset)
- **Editor**: Neovim with LazyVim
- **Navigation**: zoxide
- **Node management**: fnm

## Structure

```
dotfiles/
├── config/
│   ├── nushell/       # Nushell shell configuration
│   │   ├── config.nu
│   │   └── env.nu
│   ├── git/
│   │   └── ignore     # Global gitignore
│   └── starship.toml  # Prompt configuration
├── scripts/           # Utility scripts
├── setup.sh           # Setup script
├── gitconfig          # Git configuration
├── gitmessage         # Commit message template
└── bashrc             # Bash fallback config
```

## Installation

### Prerequisites

Install via Homebrew:

```sh
brew install nushell starship zoxide neovim
brew install fnm bun  # optional
```

### Setup

1. Clone the repository:
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/kioku/dotfiles.git ~/dotfiles
   ```

2. Run the setup script:
   ```sh
   ~/dotfiles/setup.sh
   ```

The script will:
- Check for required prerequisites
- Create symlinks (backing up existing files)
- Set up the secrets file

## Secrets

API keys and credentials are stored in `~/.secrets.nu` which is sourced by nushell but not tracked in git. Example:

```nu
$env.SOME_API_KEY = "your-key-here"
```

## Legacy Configs

Legacy vim, tmux, zsh, and prezto configs are preserved in the `archive/legacy-configs` branch.

## Neovim

Neovim configuration uses LazyVim and is managed separately at `~/.config/nvim/`.

Commit message:

Add Brewfile and restore tmux configuration
- Add curated Brewfile (removed nvm, rcm, old pythons, project-specific tools)
- Restore tmux.conf from archive
- Update setup.sh to symlink tmux.conf
- Update README with Brewfile documentation

README.md, after:

# dotfiles

Personal dotfiles for macOS.

## Current Setup

- **Shell**: Nushell
- **Prompt**: Starship (pure preset)
- **Editor**: Neovim with LazyVim
- **Multiplexer**: tmux
- **Navigation**: zoxide
- **Node management**: fnm

## Structure

```
dotfiles/
├── config/
│   ├── nushell/       # Nushell shell configuration
│   │   ├── config.nu
│   │   └── env.nu
│   ├── git/
│   │   └── ignore     # Global gitignore
│   └── starship.toml  # Prompt configuration
├── scripts/           # Utility scripts
├── Brewfile           # Homebrew packages
├── setup.sh           # Setup script
├── tmux.conf          # Tmux configuration
├── gitconfig          # Git configuration
├── gitmessage         # Commit message template
└── bashrc             # Bash fallback config
```

## Installation

### Prerequisites

Install via Homebrew:

```sh
brew install nushell starship zoxide neovim tmux
brew install fnm bun  # optional
```

Or install everything from the Brewfile:

```sh
brew bundle install --file=~/dotfiles/Brewfile
```

### Setup

1. Clone the repository:
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/kioku/dotfiles.git ~/dotfiles
   ```

2. Run the setup script:
   ```sh
   ~/dotfiles/setup.sh
   ```

The script will:
- Check for required prerequisites
- Create symlinks (backing up existing files)
- Set up the secrets file

## Secrets

API keys and credentials are stored in `~/.secrets.nu` which is sourced by nushell but not tracked in git. Example:

```nu
$env.SOME_API_KEY = "your-key-here"
```

## Brewfile

The `Brewfile` captures the complete set of Homebrew packages, casks, and cargo tools installed on this system. Use it to replicate the full development environment:

```sh
# Install everything
brew bundle install --file=~/dotfiles/Brewfile

# Check what would be installed
brew bundle check --file=~/dotfiles/Brewfile
```

## Legacy Configs

Legacy vim, zsh, and prezto configs are preserved in the `archive/legacy-configs` branch.

## Neovim

Neovim configuration uses LazyVim and is managed separately at `~/.config/nvim/`.
